I'm going to talk a little bit about
where technology's going and often
technology comes to us we were surprised
by what it brings but there's actually a
large aspect of technology that's much
more predictable and that's because
technological systems of all sorts have
meanings have urgencies they have
tendencies and those tendencies are
derived from the very nature of the
physics chemistry of wires and switches
and electrons and they will make
reoccurring patterns again and again and
so those patterns produce these these
tendencies these leanings you can almost
think of it as sort of like gravity
imagine raindrops falling into a valley
the actual path of a raindrop as it goes
down the valley is unpredictable
we cannot see where it's going but the
general direction is very inevitable
it's downward and so these baked-in
tendency emergencies in technological
systems give us a sense of where things
are going at the large form so in a
large sense I would say that telephones
are inevitable but the iPhone was not
the internet was inevitable but Twitter
was not and so we have many ongoing
tendencies right now and I think one of
the chief among them is this tendency to
make things smarter and smarter I call
it cognitive ocation also known as
artificial intelligence or AI and I
think that's going to be one of the most
influential developments in trends and
directions and drives in our society in
the next 20 years and so of course it's
already here we already have a a AI and
often it works in the background the
back offices of hospitals where it's
used to diagnose x-rays better than a
human doctor it's in legal offices where
is used to go through legal evidence
better than a human paranoia
it's used to fly the plane that you came
here with human pilots only fluid seven
to eight minutes the rest of the time
the AI was driving
and of course in Netflix and Amazon it's
in the background making those
recommendations that's what we have
today and we have an example of course
in a more front-facing aspect of it with
the win of the alphago who'd be the
world's greatest go champion but it's
more than that if you play a video game
you're playing against an AI but
recently Google taught that AI in the AI
their AI to actually learn how to play
video games again teaching video games
was already done but learning how to
play a video game is another step that's
artificial smartness and what we're
doing is is we're taking this artificial
smartness and we're making it smarter
and smarter and there are three aspects
to this general trend that I think
you're underappreciated and I think we
would understand a are a lot better if
we understood these three things and I
think these things are also would help
us embrace AI because it's only by
embracing it that we actually can steer
it we can actually steer the specifics
by embracing the larger trend so let me
talk about those three different aspects
the first one is our own intelligence
has a very poor understanding of what
intelligence is we tend to think of
intelligence that it's a single
dimension that it's kind of like a note
that gets louder and louder it starts
like with IQ IQ measurement it starts
with maybe a simple low IQ and a rat or
mouse and maybe there's more in a
chimpanzee and then maybe there's more
in a stupid person and then maybe an
average person like myself and then
maybe a genius that this single IQ
intelligence is getting greater and
greater that's completely wrong that's
not what intelligence is not what human
intelligence is anyway it's much more
like a symphony of different notes and
each of these notes is played on a
different instrument of cognition so
there are many types of intelligences in
a
our minds we have deductive reasoning we
have emotional intelligence we have
spatial intelligence we have maybe a
hundred different types that are all
grouped together and they vary in
different strengths with different
people and of course if we go to animals
they also have another basket another
symphony of different kinds of
intelligences and sometimes those same
instruments are the same that we have
they can think in the same way but they
may have a different arrangement and
maybe they are higher in some cases in
humans like long-term memory in a
squirrel is actually phenomenal so you
remember where it buried its nuts but in
other cases they may be lower and when
we go to machines to make them we're
going to engineer them in the same way
where we'll make some of those types of
smartness much greater than ours and
many of them won't be anywhere near ours
because they're not needed so so we're
going to take these things these
artificial clusters and we'll be adding
more varieties of artificial cognition
to our a is we're going to take them and
we're going to make them very very
specific so your calculator is smarter
than you are in arithmetic already your
GPS is smarter than you are in spatial
navigation Google being are smarter than
you are and long-term memory and we're
going to take again these kinds of
different types of thinking and we'll
put them into like a car and the reason
why we want to put them in a car so the
car drives is because it's not driving
like a human it's not thinking like us
that's the whole feature of it it's not
being distracted it's not worrying about
whether it left the stove on or that
should have majored in finance it's just
driving just driving okay and we
actually might even come to advertise
these as consciousness free they're not
without consciousness they're not
concerned about those things are not
distracted and so in general what we're
trying to do is trying to make as many
different types of thinking as we can
we're going to populate the space of all
the different possible types or species
of thinking and there actually may be
some problems that are so difficult in
business in science that our own type of
human thinking may not be able to solve
them alone we may need a two step
program which is to invent new kinds of
thinking that we can work alongside of
to solve these really large problems say
like dark energy or quantum gravity so
what we're doing is we're making alien
intelligences you might even think of
this as sort of artificial aliens in
some senses and they're going to help us
think different because thinking
different is the engine of creation and
wealth and new-new economy so the second
aspect of this is is that we are going
to use AI to basically make a Second
Industrial Revolution the first
Industrial Revolution was based on the
fact that we invented something I would
call artificial power so previous to
that during Agricultural Revolution
everything that was made had to be made
with human muscle or animal power that
was the only way to get anything done
and the great innovation during
Industrial Revolution was we harnessed
steam power fossil fuels to make this
artificial power that we could used to
do anything we wanted to do so today
when you drive down the highway you are
with the flick of the switch commanding
250 horses took me 50 horsepower which
we can use to build skyscrapers to build
cities to build roads to make factories
that would turn outlines of chairs or
refrigerators way beyond our own power
and that artificial power can also be
distributed on wires on a grid
it to every home factory arm farmstead
and anybody could buy that artificial
power just by plugging something in and
so this was a source of innovation as
well because a farmer could take a
manual hand pump and they could add this
artificial power this electricity and
he'd have an electric pump you multiply
that by thousands or tens of thousands
of times and that formula was what
brought us the Industrial Revolution and
all the things that we see all this
progress that we now enjoy has come from
the fact that we've done that we're
going to do the same thing now with AI
we're going to distribute that on a grid
and now you can take that electric pump
you can add some artificial intelligence
and now you have a smart pump and that
multiplied by a million times is going
to be this secular industrial revolution
so now the car is going down the highway
at 250 horsepower but in addition is 250
mines
that's the auto driven car it's like a
new commodity it's a new utility the AI
is going to flow across the grid the
cloud in the same way an electricity did
so everything that we had electrified
we're not going to cognate I and I would
suggest them the formula for the next
10,000 startups is very very simple
which is to take X and add AI that is
the formula that's what we're going to
be doing and that is the wave in which
we're going to make this second
Industrial Revolution and by the way
right now this minute
you can log on to Google and you can
purchase AI for 6 cents 100 hits that's
available right now so the third aspect
of this is that when we take this AI and
we embody it we get robots and robots
are going to be BOTS are going to be
doing many of the tasks that we have
already done and our job is this a bunch
of tasks so they're going to redefine
our jobs because they're going to do
some of those tasks but they're also
going to create a whole new categories a
whole new slew of tasks that we didn't
know we wanted to do before so they're
going to actually in gender new kinds of
jobs new kinds of tax that we wanted
done just as automation made up a whole
bunch of new things that we didn't know
we
before now we can't live without them
and so they're going to produce even
more jobs than they take away but it's
important that a lot of the tasks that
they're going that we're going to give
them are tasks that can be defined in
terms of efficiency or productivity if
you can specify a task either manual or
or conceptual that it can be specified
in terms of efficiency or productivity
that goes to the bots so productivity is
for robots what we're really good at is
basically wasting time we're really good
at things that are inefficient science
is inherently inefficient it runs on the
fact that you have one failure after
another it runs in the fact that you
make tests and experiments that don't
work otherwise you're not learning it
runs on the fact that there is not a lot
of efficiency in it innovation by
definition is inefficient because you
make prototypes because you try stuff
that fails it doesn't work exploration
is inherently the inefficiency art is
not efficient human relationships are
not efficient these are all the kinds of
things that we're going to gravitate to
because they are not efficient
efficiency is for robots okay and we're
also going to learn that they we're
going to work with these AIS because
they think differently than us so when
deep blue beat the world's best chess
champion people thought it was the end
of chess but actually it turns out that
today the best chess champion the world
is not an AI and it's not a human it's
the team of a human in AI the best
medical diagnostic is not a doctor it's
not an AI it's the team so we're going
to be working with these AIS and I think
you'll be paid in the future by how well
you were with these BOTS
okay so that's the third thing is that
they're different the utility and that
they are going to be something that we
work with rather than against we're
working with these rather than against
them so the future where as I take us I
think that 25 years Mel look back right
now and they'll look at our
understanding of AI and said you didn't
have AI in fact you didn't even have the
intern
it yet compared to what we're going to
have in 25 years from now and so there
are no AI experts right now there are a
lot of money going to it there's
billions of dollars being spent on it
it's a huge business but there are no
experts compared to what we'll know in
20 years from now okay and so we are
just at the beginning of the beginning
we're in the first hour of all this
we're in the first hour of the Internet
we're in the first Albert what's coming
and the most popular AI product in
twenty years from now that everybody
uses has not been invented yet
that means that you're not late thank
[Applause]